so I'm Joel and four hundred three bucks
and recently we've been working on a
protocol called ceramic and I'm gonna
give you like an overview of chemicals
through what ceramic is and how it works
and how working you it's to control pen
sets with decentralized identities or
deities all right cool all right so
ceramic is protocol for unstoppable
documents so what does that really mean
well it's documents that are owned by
someone and in order to make updates to
them you have a sign on so there's like
mutable documents that are signed by
some identity and they're also anchored
on chains we get a stronger form of
immutability and a document has like a
permanent link that refers to the latest
version of the document but we can also
refer to a specific version of a
document and I'll go into that a little
bit in a little bit we can also
construct a graph of document so I can
have a document that points to another
ceramic document and I can like change
that link later if I want to and I
mentioned blockchain anchoring so
ceramic is kind of agnostic as to which
blockchain a document is anchored on and
right now three boxes creating an
echoing service that runs on ethereum
but it's fairly straightforward just
been up like a
knackering service on like five coin or
Bitcoin or whatever and we also have an
account system using the 80s so we have
a ceramic native dat method called 380
and basically it allows us to
communicate
multiple bachi to link to this tab data
infer that were sometimes referring to
it as chemical more into that a bit
later of how that works
strange I can click
okay so what's decentralized identity
Saudi ID is the standard is kind of
merged from a w3c working group and it's
basically a standard for soft sovereign
identity so what a D ID is is that it's
it's a string identifier I usually did :
and under dat method and then in some
form of string that I'd uniquely
identifies the t ID and you can use this
dat an interest ring to resolve a DAT
document and in this document you have
public keys so like a signature key a
public encryption key so you can use
that Li like verify signatures from that
identity you can use that to do a key
exchange with the identity so you can
like send them encrypted messages and
that the ATM document might contain like
references to like different services
that this the IDs
daddy's had fairly wide adoption there
over or almost 60 30 30 ID methods and
most of the prominent proxy systems have
some form of PID method associated with
them like either that they have created
or the people are created on top the key
theorem has like more at least three
different ones some governmental ID
system have been experimenting with the
80s and like issuing credentials to
citizens there's also something called
decentralized identity foundation that
develops and maintains and standards
around the eighties and if you're in the
dat community you also inevitably get to
hear about verifiable credentials almost
directly
so basically verify we credential is
like you can make it claim about some
things I can claim that the sky is blue
and then I use my D ID public key to
sign that claim and you can verify that
I claim that this guy's blue actually
it's not very blue right now emphasis
very dark alright so with that you can
create a comparator at the station
system or you can have like
verifications from official authorities
so well what's ceramic so the ceramic
Network is basically a network of these
ceramic documents which I mentioned
before and in this diagram you can each
triangle here is kind of like a ceramic
node and a ceramic now it is kind of
built on top of ipfs so look at P and I
give V and then it connects to a
blockchain so you see to the three nodes
to the left or connected to etherium the
three nodes to the right are connected
to the power point and the the kind of
two nodes in the middle are connected
and so when I update a document that
update would be anchored on the
blockchain and and but ceramic is
Kennedy Gnostic so we cannot have this
unified network of documents that kind
of provide metadata around blockings
in any way so once and also like each
node kind of decides which documents to
pin and maintain the latest a of very
similar to how I you can kind of decide
which documents or which which files in
an idea this and yeah I do to sleep in
heat sink updates and I give us the same
data of these documents yeah there is no
no inherent kind of backup systems you
can still have to in this data but we're
enabling like these ceramic nodes to
have like a configurable backup system
so you can maybe use like five coin or
like use the painting service or maybe
use some other blushing Network like our
weave or storage or whatever and cool so
the anatomy of a ceramic document so
energy can I'm understand how a ceramic
document works you have to look at the
the the data structure this in
stored in IPL B so when you create a
document you create a Genesis record and
then that Genesis record get anchored on
the blockchain then we have kind of
version zero of the documents when I
want to make an updates I sign
I'm a signature make a signature record
that cup day is a signature over like
the payload of the update to the
document and that also gets anchored on
chain then I usually need to kind of
communicate the latest CID of the
document to all the other notes are
interested in the same document and then
I can do the same thing again and now I
get to perform two of the documents and
as you can see the anchor record
contains some proof metadata which
points to like a blocking transaction so
the proof matter that I can describe to
which block chain has been anchored on
and yeah so document has an ID and
that's basically ceramic Khosla slash
and then the CID of the Genesis record
and that ID of the documents is always
the same so when I come online and want
to know the state of a given document I
can using the dock idea I can resolve
the Genesis record and then I have to
kind of asked the the network about like
hey do you have any more recent state of
this document and other nodes can reply
with with updates and as I get them from
other notes I can verify that the whole
record or whole log of records are
correct and if I get like a conflicting
log with two different paths like first
I shake that little bit updates are
valid if both paths are actually valid
and signed by the correct key and I used
used one that was anchored earlier on
the given blockchain so we have kind of
a conflict resolution mechanism oh one
thing I forgot to mention also is that
the Genesis record specifies like the
owner of the document so that's usually
ID ID and each signature record that we
make an update has to be signed by the
owner DP in order to be valid cool and
another record typed so so these kind of
have signatures and anchors as like sign
with like a public private key
and an anchor but we might want to have
documents that are controlled by Dow or
contract or something like that so we
want to also create a record cactus like
Dow vote outcome or something like that
which basically get makes this kind of
more flexible and and I just I'll show
quick use case of that you know a bit
alright so and interact there's this
concept of document types or dark types
we have create three kind of standard
ones but you can add more so right now
we have tiles tiles is a very generic
effect which you can basically store any
type of JSON data and they're only
controlled by ID ID needing use them to
store like schemas and policies maybe
profiles generally metadata and
interestingly for for this talk
attentions and of course all of these
documents are found in what they comment
they stop this before it's the DAT
method that's native ceramic it's quite
elaborate and probably the more scalable
dat methods and it's because of the way
servants are structured it has like
built-in security verification 380 were
to leave use case we and built the
ceramic protocol for and then we kind of
generalize it account links are
interesting they basically allow you to
link and watch in account to ad ID so I
can link in my theorem account to
microwave a and I can link my five point
account to my 380 and I can have kind of
a unified accounts that used to go to
the applications to the different block
chains and use the kind of surrounding
metadata and and my user data across
these different apps and you can create
your own blog type so for an example
could be like a verifiable credential
and use ceramic to revoke the credential
and one in
one person in our community actually
suggested having like a dynamic rule set
doctype basically allows you to when you
create a document to specify a
javascript binary that will be used to
validate that your state transition of
the document and you can run this
javascript binary and like secure a
comma script is like a secure container
for javascript and that's super cool so
that's that could be like a future at
archetype in ceramic ok so now let's
actually talk about pinning and in
particular how can a pen set be
controlled by a DAT so I think this
slide is fairly straightforward once we
can have become true and got a basic
understanding of all the concept before
so basically I'm a tid tid controls the
tile so now I have two tenths of tiles
that one the ID control and this pin
sceptile basically contain a list of see
IDs that we wanna pin and then we can
basically give the state of this tile to
not be faster for example and they start
to produce like in those series and in
this example yeah we have two different
inside tiles and on the ID control we
can have potentially also some pen set
tiles that multiple deities control
maybe we have some camera multi-sig
structure like two out of three needs to
sign in order to change the pen set and
yeah the clusters gonna follow the piece
of tile and then according to what's in
the an interesting aspect of this is
that we can use the versioning of
ceramic documents in order to kind of
look at previous versions of the pen set
so we can see kind of how the pin set
has changed over time another
interesting thing is that we can have T
IDs that delegate control to other
ladies and example a
[Music]
have a doubt that the ad and ceramic can
delegate access control to another deity
that is it might might be a user and the
user might update the pencil tile and
then another user might take another
pizza tile both owned and controlled by
the ldae we think this is really
powerful as the concept to use kind of
gate needs to control these pin sets
because the ADEs is this kind of
generalized standard that is used kind
of across the web three ecosystem but
also in a kind of more traditional
like more kind of governmental use cases
where basically there's like people
looking at using deities from like a lot
of different perspectives and in a lot
of different ecosystems and if we can
tie this make this an eID standard as
the entry point or how and we're also
before like I said kind of - before if
you use like create for move the
six-four house interesting thing is like
bowing a NFT to control of the ID and
another thing we've been looking at this
actually using a nmt as the owner of a
of a tile that would allow us to whoever
is the owner of the nfe right now would
be allowed to update the content of the
document and yeah this allows us to kind
of have any blockchain identity to the
pencil all right so this is a little bit
rough and probably not back but
basically this is you have to inspire a
way of CA DS and that's really always
needed but then you might add some of
things like I want this is the cluster
that service provided
like three or like be available in the
EU and us and you can met in like a lot
of different settings that would
probably go into this so this is kind of
from the deity's person other
interesting thing that we have been
thinking about what you could use the
scanning for is for active service plan
to find their service and as policy
trial and this is an a very rough
example real service policy would need
to be much more fleshed out but here we
have a description you have a request
endpoint certain endpoint that allow you
to kind of specify a pencil tile
document ID and then we have a request
schema so that might and like a schema
that's also defined ceramic documents
and that schema defines kind of watch
how input data into this wristed
endpoint needs to look like and then the
service might define like a payments
that you can make for painting this data
for maybe a specific amount of time and
it could be like a payment channel with
using something like conext or lightning
or whatever or it could be like a
centralized service which you need to go
and create an account
I think there are many different ways of
approaching this but they can all idea
there's have their service needs both in
this kind of Hope network it's very
powerful
all right
ceramic and all of it is led by three
box and or in for this to create a
connected there for where we're
different juicers and services and
applications can provide data about
themselves and the services that they
provide and I think that'll be linked to
different ball chains to include native
databases
into cannot one general metadata layer
and you can also connect will be
services at least alignments policy be
you kind of wrapped web to services
within like a service policy document
and like have maybe do micro payments
for requests and also lets users kind of
bring their data along them to different
applications that might live on the
blockchain such we have a specification
on our github for how the protocol works
everything is up in source
we love to collaborate with anyone and
we have a proof implementation in
typescript
it has to see ally and its web native so
it can run in the browser and basically
runs the whole protocol in the browser
using JSI purpose right so enjoy awesome
thank you so much for that awesome to
get in a deeper dive hi I see my own
question in the chat which was and what
you were describing with tiles that
control pin sets sounds really similar
to threads or at least snapshots of
threads can you talk a little bit about
similarities differences kind of how
those things work under the hood yeah
there's a good question so so they're
similar in the sense that you cannot
have this it's like a pen don't be the
main tiles on Kane and so they kind of
provide more I don't know like
auditability or or you can have more
digit verifiability of the data so you
and I think that that's kind of the main
difference and I think picks out threads
for example are more a better for like
fast-paced collaboration and like things
that update quickly whereas ceramic is
kind of moving a little bit slower
and because you can eat things yeah
thank you that's a great answer I'm
crazed it up for me
anyone else have questions for Joel
awesome awesome talk recommendations for
pinning service today what can they do
to get ready to pin ceramic documents
hmm so so we hope that like it should be
fairly simple to spin up like the
ceramic CLI tools one thing that would
be helpful I think would be to learn
more providers what what the
requirements were like no super and in
or that they use any so what kind of
helps you run the fittings pinning at
scale basically because now we have like
one one implementation of this that kind
of is designed to both run in the
browser and act as kind of your local
node and it could probably run as like a
larger node as well but you can't like
write a like large scale so requirements
around that would be like super
interesting to the arrow
anyone else have any questions for Joel
another one best features would be
helpful for ceramic documents so some
one thing working on right now is just
like kind of having a native way to
address signed and encrypted objects in
octopus and we're trying to make a codec
for Joe say and cozy which are standards
from IDF for like wrapping and
describing sending of the data so
automatically the cryptid day would be
super cool and hopefully we can make
that happen
using this Josie
or and/or cozy there's probably like a
billion things like smaller things but I
can't think of any right now oh I guess
so one thing we do is put like the hash
of the transaction which the anchoring
was included as CID so we put the
etherion transaction CID and we'll be
cool if we could like sync the blocking
over IP face as well I know Co mob is
among and people have been working on
that but that seemed like still a little
bit the way